README.md, before:

Particleground
==============

A jQuery plugin for snazzy background particle systems. Includes an optional parallax effect controlled by the mouse on desktop devices and gyroscope on mobile devices.

## Usage

    $('#your-element').particleground();

## Options

Options can be overridden by passing an options object to the constructor.

Here is an example of setting the color of the particle system dots and lines:

    $('#your-element').particleground({
        dotColor: '#ff0000',
        lineColor: '#ff0000'
    });

Here is a full list of options, and their default values:

### width

    window.screen.width

By default the canvas is wide enough to fill viewport at 100% screen width.

### height

    window.screen.height

By default the canvas is tall enough to fill viewport at 100% screen height.

### minSpeedX

    0.1

### maxSpeedX

    0.7

### minSpeedY

    0.1

### maxSpeedY

    0.7

### directionX

    'center'

Can be one of 'center', left' or 'right. 'center' means that the dots will bounce off the edges of the canvas.

### directionY

    'center'

Can be one of 'center', up' or 'down'. 'center' means that the dots will bounce off the edges of the canvas.

### density

    10000

Determines how many particles will be generated: one particle every n pixels.

### dotColor

    '#666666'

### lineColor

    '#666666'

### particleRadius

    7

Dot size

### lineWidth

    1

### curvedLines

    false

### proximity

    100

How close two dots need to be, in pixels, before they join

### parallax

    true

### parallaxMultiplier

    5

The lower the number, the greater the parallax effect.

### onInit

    function() {}

A callback executed after Particleground initializes.

### onDestroy

    function() {}

A callback executed after Particleground is destroyed.

## Methods

### pause

Pauses the particle system.

    $('#your-element').particlegound('pause');

### start

Restarts the particle system if you previously paused it.

    $('#your-element').particlegound('start');

### destroy

Removes the plugin from your element.

    $('#your-element').particlegound('destroy');

## Credits

Particleground was inspired by http://requestlab.fr/ and http://disruptivebydesign.com/

Commit message:

Added link to demo from readme

README.md, after:

Particleground
==============

A jQuery plugin for snazzy background particle systems. Includes an optional parallax effect controlled by the mouse on desktop devices and gyroscope on mobile devices.

[See a demo](https://jnicol.github.io/particleground)

## Usage

    $('#your-element').particleground();

## Options

Options can be set by passing an options object to the constructor.

Here is an example of setting the color of the particle system dots and lines:

    $('#your-element').particleground({
        dotColor: '#ff0000',
        lineColor: '#ff0000'
    });

Here is a full list of options, and their default values:

### width

    window.screen.width

By default the canvas is wide enough to fill viewport when it is 100% screen wide.

### height

    window.screen.height

By default the canvas is tall enough to fill viewport when it is 100% screen high.

### minSpeedX

    0.1

### maxSpeedX

    0.7

### minSpeedY

    0.1

### maxSpeedY

    0.7

### directionX

    'center'

Can be one of `'center'`, `'left' or `'right'`. `'center'` means that the dots will bounce off the edges of the canvas.

### directionY

    'center'

Can be one of `'center'`, `'up'` or `'down'`. `'center'` means that the dots will bounce off the edges of the canvas.

### density

    10000

Determines how many particles will be generated: one particle every n pixels.

### dotColor

    '#666666'

### lineColor

    '#666666'

### particleRadius

    7

Dot size

### lineWidth

    1

### curvedLines

    false

### proximity

    100

How close two dots need to be, in pixels, before they join.

### parallax

    true

### parallaxMultiplier

    5

The lower the number, the more extreme the parallax effect wil be.

### onInit

    function() {}

A callback executed after Particleground initializes.

### onDestroy

    function() {}

A callback executed after Particleground is destroyed.

## Methods

### pause

Pauses the particle system.

    $('#your-element').particlegound('pause');

### start

Restarts the particle system if you previously paused it.

    $('#your-element').particlegound('start');

### destroy

Removes the plugin from your element.

    $('#your-element').particlegound('destroy');

## Credits

Particleground was inspired by http://requestlab.fr/ and http://disruptivebydesign.com/
